So Dax, this SUV thing, how close were we to just total meltdown?
You know, it was pretty dramatic for a few days, but in the end, I think it was actually
kind of a boring run-of-the-mill situation, which is exactly what you would want from
the banking sector and the government.
I actually think it was a great example of a rare example of our government working extremely
well.
I think that might have gotten lost a little bit in the details.
Yeah, and quickly.
I mean, we thought we'd do a podcast today, didn't know it all be sort of resolved.
At this point.
Yeah, exactly.
I think the news was just coming out really fast.
I think it was actually happening so fast, I was seeing the reactions kind of delayed
on Twitter.
I saw like when the news came out, you know, of how they're going to resolve it, they were
already, you know, going down that path, but there were so people reacting to like the
initial information.
So that's how quickly they got it done, the news cycle couldn't even keep up.
Yeah.
So you said that there's been sort of some lost in translation here, like people not realizing
that this was actually handled really well.
Could you talk about what reactions you've seen where people are missing that?
Yeah.
Maybe we just talk a little bit about what exactly happened to summarize it.
Yes.
So one was like last Thursday, right?
There was effectively a bank run that happened on Silicon Valley bank, which is a bank that
is like often used by startups in the tech industry.
There was news that they lost a bunch of money on investments, which with rising interest
rates, like it's just kind of bound to happen with with some of these banks.
And that concern, the concern over that spiraled into a full panic of people pulling their
money out.
So they kind of showed down operations and then that DC came in and took over.
So I think the initial reactions were, oh, no, this is terrible, a bank has failed.
And I think there was a lot of people had memories back to 2008 of being like, oh, great.
Now the government is going to bail out these rich, like Silicon Valley investors, VCs, et
cetera.
Because if there was a big VC crowd making a bunch of noise about this, which was also
kind of annoying.
Yeah.
I want to talk about that too.
So it was, I think a lot of reactions were around this political angle of they kind of
bucketed this as into another example of a bunch of rich people gambled and lost money
and they wanted the government to make them whole, which has happened a lot in the past
historically.
But this situation wasn't exactly that.
I think that's kind of what was lost in just in the chaos or anything that was going on.
Yeah.
So I think people here are Silicon Valley bank and they think like startups and they think
venture capitalists and like all these people are doing really well because you talk about
like this was not a malfeasance or whatever, like this was not people gambling in ways
that are just super risky.
Like this was sort of like normal bank operations, unfortunate circumstances, and then a lot
of fear.
But the people that like ultimately would have been hurt so badly if the government didn't
bail it out, we're not just like rich people.
It's all the people that work for startups, right?
I mean, could you kind of break that down for me?
Yeah.
I think the reality is is sometimes businesses fail.
You know, I've only worked at businesses that have failed, but thankfully I've only worked
in industries where when a business I am building fails, it doesn't really ruin anyone's lives.
It's maybe annoying for someone to switch to something else if they were using my product.
But sometimes banks fail just like any other company, a business, a bankages a business
that's run by people that can sometimes fail.
But when banks fail, it kind of creates a lot of chaos for their customers.
And that's what the situation was, there were people that were running a bank who for whatever
reason it failed.
Those people, I understand you don't want to like save them because they kind of ran
this thing and it failed and they should kind of pay the price or like, this system should
learn the lesson and the data point that exists from their failure.
But the customers were just people that deposited their money in the bank.
And any of us deposited our money in a bank, we're not going to go review the bank's balance
sheet and like, keep up with the quarterly meetings to make sure that the bank is operating
the way we want them to.
Like none of us really have the overhead, none of us are the time to manage that overhead.
So anyone that had their money deposited there, again, just like any other business, you're
just a customer, all of a sudden this, you know, this business is starting to fail.
That's actually why we have a government, right, when there are situations where a random
person just gets hurt.
It could have been you, me, like the fact that I didn't have my money in SVB is effectively
random.
Like I'm not like some genius and new not to have my money in there.
So people that they get hit, it is kind of random and the people, in this case, the people
that were were hit were people that, you know, a lot of startups that employed other people.
So just having them, you know, fail with the bank doesn't really make sense.
They weren't in charge of running the bank, Robert in the bank.
Just like none of us really are paying attention to our own personal bank operations.
Yeah.
So a few things I want to impact.
One, I guess the unique thing about SVB is a lot of the customers being startups have
huge deposits, like they have huge account balances because they've raised $10 million
in venture capital or whatever, right?
So normal bank fails with just like normal consumer accounts, like a lot of them are
going to be under that FDIC insurance, the $250,000 limit.
But in this case, I think I read it was like 95% of deposits at SVB would have been lost.
You know, if this weren't, if somehow the government didn't step in, somebody didn't make them
whole because all these huge balances at startups, is that all accurate?
This was something that was kind of lost in some of the chaos.
The money didn't vanish.
There wasn't a bunch of money that someone gambled away and it was all gone.
It was unclear how much of it was readily available.
They did lose some, but you know, it could have just been like two or 3% that kind of
causes this panic.
So making the depositors whole, they didn't have to look like the government coming in
and filling in like a $200 billion gap.
And in fact, that's not what happened.
If you read the document that the FDIC put out, it looks like they were able to find
a buyer for the gap and for all the debts and all the assets that SVB did that would
make all the depositors whole without the government even having to spend anything, any
taxpayer money or anything.
They do have like a backup fund in case there are like short-term gaps while the stuff gets
figured out.
But this is a really boring part of our government that none of us really, I think we often see
the beginnings of things like this, but we never really hear about the endings, right?
One of my favorite stats is the birdie made off situation.
When that went down, we all heard, okay, stole all this money and this was all gone.
And it took them years to figure it all out.
And not many of us heard the ending, which is, I think they recovered like 85% or something.
It was some like crazy amount of money they recovered.
So ultimately, and they also even paid out least to most.
So if you, they actually were the investors by who had the least with them and paid those
out whole first, yeah, and then some of the people that had more with them, you know,
they didn't get, percentage-wise, they didn't get all the back, but you know, it was a good
way to do it.
So they just tracked it all down and then they made it work.
It takes time, but this is like the thing that they're good at, and they kind of kill
it when it comes to the type of thing.
So I didn't know that that the made-off situation, most of those people were made whole, I guess.
That's good.
Yeah.
Because you heard all those stories when the news was breaking about, you know, bus drivers
losing their life savings, that whole thing.
Yeah.
I don't hear the ending.
So I want to talk about the takes, you said, "Oh man, now that I know we're trying not
to cut stuff out."
Some of the people on Twitter have been upset that people are expressing they shouldn't
be on the hook when a bank fails.
It's not their responsibility to sort of split their money across several banks or several
accounts to stand at the limit.
I think it's totally reasonable to think that we shouldn't expect banks to fail.
I guess the takes that bother me on Twitter I've seen are like, "It's a risky thing to
put your money in a bank.
You should know that."
Like, really?
Like, is it?
I don't think so.
Does that make you mad?
Like, when I see those takes, it makes me mad.
Yeah.
It's like, let's kind of be reasonable and kind of practical.
You don't really want every single person in the country thinking that hard about whether
they trust their money going into a bank.
And it's kind of an unfounded fear.
Yes, the process of running a bank is very complicated and some like FDIC closes a bunch
of banks every year just like this.
It just happens to be a very big one.
It is tricky.
But because of that, it's also one of the most heavily regulated industries ever.
If you look at what banks look like 100 years ago in this country, that was a risky time
to put money in banks.
Like, anything, it kind of is like what crypto is today.
Like, banks are going under, left and right.
They are making their own currencies effectively.
Like, all this crazy stuff was happening.
And all these regulations we've discovered were and put into place over the past, you
know, 100 years or so lead to a pretty good system, a system in which a bank having a
situation that, I guess, Phoebe did is effectively resolved in three days over a weekend, right?
That's really incredible.
It's like no other part of our government.
If something goes wrong in any other part of our government, like, you're not getting
a resolution in three days, right?
No, right.
This is a rare part of the system that works really well.
It's not risky.
There is complications running a bank, but there's like a counter measure here with all
regulations in the way the government operates and how all the insurance stuff is structured
with that VIC.
It's a miracle.
It all works really well.
And that's kind of what's exciting about the situation we can kind of get to witness
that in a tangible way.
Do you think had they not acted this quickly and we had gone into this week with that
all still kind of up near no word from the government or from whoever the Federal Reserve?
Do you think, like, what do you think the outcome would have been?
I don't know.
Maybe it's done to even guess, but I feel like there was an urgency.
I just couldn't.
I just can't even imagine that being the case, like it was so this whole organization exists
just to react to situations like this.
So I just can't even imagine what that would have been like.
But yeah, if they hadn't, and I think this is probably so happening to some of the great
people kind of reevaluating where they have their money and maybe, you know, centralizing
their money and less risky banks.
I personally use all these like weird new new banks, but I'm personally not really moving
anything around.
Well, yeah, all the extreme takes I was seeing on Twitter where like every regional bank will
fail.
It'll be just the big four that are too big to fail left standing and I don't know how
much that's just extreme online speak.
There definitely is some kind of reaction.
The other thing that I saw that was also a little annoying.
And I am not going to.
I think having looked at the profile of some of the people saying this, I think I knew
what they were doing.
Like they knew what they were doing.
It wasn't like, you're talking about the founders and people investors or whoever that
were just trying to like, no, well, that's another we can talk about.
But the thing I was going to mention were there were a bunch of takes that were like,
oh, anyone with more than 250 K doesn't deserve protection from the government, whatever,
making it seem like these were individual bank counts that were affected.
Yeah.
Like they weren't.
They weren't individual bank counts the most part.
They were businesses like, yeah, the average person doesn't really need more than that much
sitting in a bank account.
Only businesses need that much sitting in a bank account because they might spend that
much over the course of three months for their operations.
So I think people that was also they kind of were like tapping into the this like outrage
thing that that annoys people.
So yeah, it's pretty disappointing to see just like the immediate opportunity that people
saw to like, you know, get, get attention and get, get engagement around that thing.
It just harmful a long term.
Like, I think a lot of people are going to walk away from this situation.
Again, just hearing the beginning of it, not understanding some of these details and just
remembering this as yet another situation where something corrupt happened.
Yeah.
Can we talk about the, the like, what's that guy's name?
Is it not founder's fund, but he like worked with, no, it's the kind of work like it.
Jason.
Yeah.
Worked with Elon Musk on the Twitter stuff.
Uh, the all caps tweets, just all the like, if you don't make this right, the world is
going to end.
There were a lot of those tweets.
Yeah.
It was really annoying.
Those, uh, I think everyone was joking about the, the, the, I don't really fall in that
much.
I find that guy really annoying and his whole crew, like Jason, something and, and David
Saxon, a bunch of those, like VC people, um, they're kind of always chattering with this
stuff.
Uh, people are joking today and I think they were joking and they were a little commenting
on how they're taking credit for the resolution.
They're like, yeah, and their podcast, um, because like they were making a bunch of noise
around around this thing.
I found it kind of cringy.
It was like a bunch of VCs were getting together being like, we are going to make this right.
Like we're going to stand up blah, blah, blah.
And we all know this is a very boring government procedure that is just going to play out the
same way to always play it out.
Uh, it's just, to me, it felt like, wow, they just don't have anything that they need to
like insert themselves and like, try to, you know, be relevant.
I mean, didn't they, there's a reason that the run on SPB happened in the first place,
right?
Like it was founders or like VCs telling all their port codes founders that they need to
pull their money out because they didn't sound like, from what I understood that the SCB underlying
issue where they had to raise a little capital, am I, uh, overstaying that saying they had
to raise a little capital or am I understating, like it didn't sound like a major catastrophe.
And then it was enough to spook whoever it was, Peter Thiel and founder son, I don't know,
all those people.
Yeah.
I think they just couldn't immediately find a buyer for it.
So that was like, okay, they're screwed.
We should pull our money out.
Um, but yeah, I, I, I would guess it was like 20% of it was, yeah.
That's the actual situation and then 80% of it was just from the bank run and suing bank
run that happened.
Uh, but yeah, ultimately, I think even just with that initial thing, the FDIC would have
probably stepped in.
Cause I think you have a limited amount of time to find some of that hole before, before
they step in.
But yeah, a lot of it was kind of manufactured and engineered.
Um, I'm seeing like crazy conspiracy takes on all this stuff where there are compelling,
but it just requires these actors to be really smart, which I just, I just don't think this
case.
But they're like, this was all coordinated.
So to make it more difficult for the fed to continue to increase interest rates, because
now banks are failing and I'm like, oh, that might be how it plays out because now the
fed has to think twice.
I don't think they were going to slow down hiking just because of this, but we'll see
what they do, um, but yeah, like no one, no one is that smart, especially not like a
bunch of VC guys with a podcast.
I'm very biased against VCs.
So I got to be careful not to just say bad things.
We're going to, as he's going to raise a series A and six to 12 months.
So I might just be screwing myself, stop talking.
We just like the good ones.
We know you're out there.
You hear us right now.
You're probably, if you're listening, you're probably one of the good ones.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
Okay, we're getting way over the top here.
So there's a few takes that I would like to hear your take on your response to because
my, I mean, I'm just much more alarmist.
I think my immediate take in the aftermath was not, oh, wow, this was just an example
of the government doing the right thing.
Uh, I just get swayed too much from everything I read online.
What do you think of Simon Woodley's thread because he, I mean, he's written, I think he's
not in the United States, not from the United States.
He may have a different perspective on it from their politics over there.
I don't know.
But I wasn't smart enough to understand it.
That's why I'm asking you.
I didn't understand his thread and I need you to make an sense for me.
Yeah.
I think to summarize his thread, he, uh, his take was, it was kind of what you were saying
earlier that putting your money in a bank is risky.
If you claim that it's anything other, you should nationalize the bank and it shouldn't
be a, it shouldn't be like this private system.
I just don't think it needs to be that black and white.
There's, there, there's options of like just complete free market chaos and then like completely,
you know, like public nationalized thing, right?
I, like I said, I think banks are in a really great situation where, uh, they are private.
So you have the diversity and the benefits that come from, you know, a bunch of different
private companies emerging and compete with each other.
Um, but you still have a heavy amount of regulation probably more than other top three most, you
know, regulated industries.
So you don't have the full chaos.
Um, so I feel like the situation is, it's great, like we found this nice balance between
these two extremes.
I think he was saying you can't have a balance.
It's either one or the other, which I obviously disagree with.
And I think he also was missing the point that the, the quote everyone keeps tweeting
is like privatize the gains, socialized losses, which is a problem to have a good capitalist
society.
Like you can't do that.
You have to let losers lose.
And they're kind of bucketing this under that situation.
And I'm like, Oh, like these people lost their money and we're saving them.
But this is actually perfect.
Like the statement from the, from, uh, yeah, Yellen was, was exactly what you want.
They're like, we're not saving the shareholders or the investors in these banks because they,
they made a bet and they lost money.
That's good.
Like they, that signal needs to make it back.
We're only going to save the customers, which is exactly the perfect harmony of everything
you want.
So I think in 2008, this isn't exactly what we got.
So to me, it feels like we learned a little bit in 2008 and now like we're doing it pretty
well and I feel we're going to continue to continue to do it well.
Yeah.
I remember the stories.
I think it was 2008 when all the stories came out about what happened with all these
bailouts, like where the money was actually flowing and executive bonuses and stupid
stuff that like just, I don't know how people can do in that setting and not fear the repercussions.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But in this case, all the people, I don't know who, who's an investor in SVB?
Like who are these people?
They must just super wealthy, but the thing is, it probably is also like pension funds
that invested in it and they're going to lose money, but they're probably heavily diversified.
So that like one, you know, one blow up like this is not really going to cause anything.
The 2008 thing is also funny because that's another example of all this hearing the beginning
but not hearing the boring end.
I think we all heard that the government was buying all this garbage quote unquote garbage
rated investments that these banks lost a bunch of money out.
So government was like, okay, we'll buy it off you to, you know, to save you.
That was kind of upsetting.
It turns out those actually weren't garbage and fast forward 10 years, they actually
made a ton of money for the government.
Wow.
And the Fed actually ended up reinvesting that in a bunch of infrastructure projects and
things like that.
So yeah, this is a complicated long term space, more long term than anything we like deal
with day to day.
And these are just like the biggest nerds that are in charge of this stuff.
Like they just, they know, they know how to do this stuff and it's really impressive.
So everything is very complex and these stories just reminded me of that constantly, but how
do you keep track of this stuff?
Like, how did you hear the end?
Because I would love to be informed and not just hear the big flashy news story and get
outraged and then forget about it.
Like, what do you do to stay on top of things?
You seem very responsible.
Well, nothing specific.
So I think I'm in a kind of a unique situation because my dad is my dad is a software engineer,
but he spent most of his last half of his career in the finance world and he's actually
a full time day trader now.
And he worked at, he actually worked at a, before he retired and became a day trader,
he worked at a company that specifically bought distress assets, that was their thing.
So when SVP, coming out of SVP as an issue, they come in and they're the ones making the
pitch to buy the stuff, so I just constantly hear the type of thing from him and just hearing
like, we're just not, it's just like anyone external talking about the tech industry.
Like you realize like they don't really know how all this stuff works.
It's kind of similar in finance is just as complicated of a space with just as many smart
people in it.
It's kind of hard as an outsider to really keep track or understand it all.
I have nothing else to say, I'm sorry, I'm just nodding it's my thing.
Yeah, my answer to your question is there's like, we just can't keep up.
There's no way I can benefit from this.
Yeah, I can't keep up.
I can't keep up.
I guess that's the one I wrote.
You want to call him up?
You guys can talk.
I'm sure you do like that.
Okay.
Well, I don't know anything else about this situation.
So I wasn't expecting it to be so tidied up so quickly.
So that's great.
Yeah, I'm glad.
We do have some friends that had funds there, right?
So yeah.
I mean, it's a lot of play out fully, but you know, it's headed the right way so far.
Yeah, mainly curious to see if the Fed ends up reacting in terms of their rate hike schedule
and what they have planned.
But besides that, it's pretty much a blip.
And I think by next week, people probably will have forgotten about it.
Perfect.
Right.
When this podcast episode comes out, it'll be perfect timing just as if it was forgotten.
Yeah, we should rename it to remember that thing.
And so that's more.
Remember that thing.
Yeah.
It's always in the past.
It's funny.
Well, we got to do another whole episode on interest rates because I hear people say,
I don't know another interest rate hike and I don't know what any of it means.
And I'd love to know because you sound like you know, so that's basically this podcast.
It's turned into a DAX teach me things.
You smart.
That's basically what it is.
Here's the thing.
We're running out of stuff.
It's like the last category of thing that I know about.
Oh, no.
Like we did back and stuff, which you know, you know, about the same as me, then we did
fun and stuff, which I knew a little bit more about.
You know, a lot more.
Now we're doing finance stuff.
And then that's it.
I think we have to retire this podcast after that.
Oh, so we could get into a topic that I know more about like, oh, it's true.
Hang on.
All of your individual stuff like, you know, when more than you know, nobody cares.
What do you mean?
I want something cool.
Hang on.
Not finance.
I know a lot about, I got nothing.
I really can't think of anything.
The Ozarks.
Do you want to do some episodes about the Mark Twain National Forest?
Well, what we never did that nutrition episode we talked about.
Oh, we got to do a nutrition episode.
I still can't believe your keto.
There's a little teaser.
I don't know the keto, but I have keto phases, but yeah, keto phases.
I have keto tendencies.
I'm not a keto.
Okay.
I just have keto tendencies.
Well, that would be fun because I'm vegan, your keto, together, whereas annoying as you
can be when it comes to your nutrition, that would be fun.
Okay, cool.
Well, that's enough for this.
See you.
See you next.